
20090427 - Made yesteray.  Just dumped all the ingredients (dry first)
in the bread machine and left it alone.  I'd proofed the starter at
about 1900 Saturday; made dough at about 0800 Sunday.  Let it rise
almost exactly 8 hours - gave it one shot of 1 minute in the oven at
the start, then another after 6 hours.


Cooked it on the backing stone about 23 minutes at 450 - I think it
wanted 20.




20090417 - made this last weekend (20090411ish), and it worked
perfectly.  I did hand mix and knead it, and I let it rise about eight
hours while occassionally heating up the oven and what-not to get the
temp up.


Just made the dough for this weekend - I added 2 1/2 C of flour
basically immediately to the bread machine, but then had to do a lot
of work with the spoon to get everything combined at about 15 minutes
into the mix/knead cycle.  I let it rise in the bread machine (no real
change), then turned it out on to a baking sheet and covered it.  I'm
planning on letting it rise something like 18 hours (a lot of it
overnight), and it's supposed to be pretty warm, tomorrow, so we'll
see what we get.


I think I may also be leaving the sponge alone too long after
refreshing, since I refreshed it about 24 hours ago.  For the
sourdough buns for the burgers tomorrow, I refreshed the sponge
tonight, and I'm planning on making the dough first thing tomorrow and
letting it rise, tomorrow.




20090405 - next dough, from:


  http://www.io.com/~sjohn/sour.htm


The night before, take out the starter, place it in another container,
and add 1C of flour and 1C of warm water.  Let sit overnight.  While
it's sitting, wash the sourdough starter canister.


The next day, take 2C of sponge, and place it in a large mixing bowl.
Take any remaining sponge, and add it and 1C of warm water and 1C of
flour back into the starter canister.  Let it sit on the counter for 8
or more hours, then place it back in the fridge.


Basic recipe is:


    * 3 Cups of unbleached flour
    * 4 teaspoons of sugar (20090417 tried 2 Tbsp to speed rise and simplify)
    * 2 teaspoons of salt
    * 2 Cups of sponge (proofed starter)
    * 2 tablespoons of olive oil or softened margarine


To the sponge, add the sugar, salt, and oil (the oil is optional - you
can use softened butter instead, or no oil at all). Mix well, then
knead in the flour a half-cup at a time. Knead in enough flour to make
a good, flexible bread dough.


The rise should take at least eight hours.  I've had some success by
warming things up (by, for example, turning on the oven for a minute,
then letting the loaf rise there).


The last loaf I did at 450, preheated, spraying every 10 minutes.
Cooked about 25 minutes.  Was on baking parchment.  Suspect it'd do
better straight on the stone.


=====


20090405:


The second dough from below failed to rise and was inedible.


I failed to keep good notes.  BUT.  I *think* I did this:


On Saturday morning, I took an unknown amount of doughish starter (I'm
guessing it was a half-tangerine sized piece), and added in 1C of warm
water and 1C of flour.  I let this sit at room temperature, covered,
for 24 hours.


I then added the sponge, and 2 1/2C flour, 1 1/2 tsp salt, and 3/4 C
cool water in the bread machine, and mixed it up.  I then let it rise
in the machine's cycle.


When it came out, it seemed wet to me, so I kneaded in about another
half cup of flour, and kneaded it by hand for about five minutes.  I
then let it rise for eight hours, and cooked it for 25 minutes at 450
degrees, misting with water every ten minutes.




===


First, sourdough starter, from:


http://exploratorium.edu/cooking/bread/recipe-sourdough.html


Started with 1/4 C of flour, 2 tbsp of water on 3/30/09.  Kneaded a
biscuit that rose in a couple of days.


On Wednesday, 4/1/09, I removed a "tangerine sized piece" and mixed in
1C of flour and a little bit of water.


On Thursday, 4/2/09, I added a bit more than 1C of flour and some
water to make it dough-like consistency.


With the tangerine sized piece, I made a sourdough sponge per 
http://exploratorium.edu/cooking/bread/recipe-berkeley.html


2C warm water, 2 C flour, and the tangerine sized piece of starter.  I
covered this with plastic wrap, and left it overnight (a little less -
maybe 20 hours).  This made 2 3/4 C of starter.


With this, I made two doughs.  The first, from:


http://www.io.com/~sjohn/sour.htm


I used 2C of sponge, 3C of flour, 2 Tbsp olive oil, 4 tsp sugar and 2
tsp salt.  Poured all of that into the bread machine.  Discovered I
had to add a little extra water to get it all to combine.


Let it rise in the bread machine, then let it sit there and rise for
another hour.  Removed it, kneaded it, added a bit more flour, and
shaped it into a loaf.  Cut the loaf in four places on the top,
covered with a damp cloth, and left in the sun to rise for another 90
minutes.


Placed the pizza stone in the oven, and heated it to 450 degrees, with
a pie pan full of water on the top rack to provide moisture.


Cooked it for about 33 minutes.  Crust was delicious.  I thought it
probably could've risen a bit longer.  Also, everyone agreed they'd
like it to be "more sour", so perhaps I should let the sponge ferment
longer.




---


The remaining 3/4 C of sponge I used to make:


http://exploratorium.edu/cooking/bread/recipe-berkeley.html


I put in 2 1/2C flour, 1 1/2 tsp salt, 3/4 C sponge and 3/4 C cool
water in the bread machine, and mixed it up.  I stopped it before the
rise cycle, and placed it in a well-oiled, plastic-covered bowl, which
I put in the fridge.


Plan is to let that rest 12-15 hours, then pull it out and let it come
to room temp over 2 hours.  Then, cover it, and let it rise for
6-7 hours, or until it's doubled in size.


Actual result was that I let it rest for about 36 hours.  I pulled it
out and kneaded a little flour into it (it seemed very wet), and then
placed it in the oven at about 100 degrees to try to warm it up and
let it rise more quickly.
